### Storage class specifiers

* `(no specifier)` - automatic storage duration
* `static` - static storage duration (and internal linkage)
* `extern` - static storage duration (and external linkage)
* `thread_local` - thread storage duration
* `mutable` - does not affect storage duration or linkage (see cv-qualifiers)

### Storage duration

* `automatic` storage duration. The storage for the object is allocated at the beginning of the enclosing code block and deallocated at the end.
* `static` storage duration. The storage for the object is allocated when the program begins and deallocated when the program ends. Only one instance of the object exists.
* `thread` storage duration. The storage for the object is allocated when the thread begins and deallocated when the thread ends. Each thread has its own instance of the object.
* `dynamic` storage duration. The storage for the object is allocated and deallocated upon request by using dynamic memory allocation functions.

Thread-local storage duration example:

```cpp
thread_local int i=0;

void f(int newval) {
    i = newval;
}

void g() {
    std::cout<<i;
}

void threadfunc(int id) {
    f(id);
    ++i;
    g();
}

int main() {
    i=9;
    std::thread t1(threadfunc,1);
    std::thread t2(threadfunc,2);
    std::thread t3(threadfunc,3);

    t1.join();
    t2.join();
    t3.join();
    std::cout << i << std::endl;
}
```

This code will output "2349", "3249", "4239", "4329", "2439" or "3429", but never anything else.

### Linkage

##### no linkage
The name can be referred to only from the scope it is in.

##### internal linkage
The name can be referred to from all scopes in the current translation unit.

##### external linkage
The name can be referred to from the scopes in the other translation units. Variables and functions with external linkage also have language linkage, which makes it possible to link translation units written in different programming languages.

##### module linkage (wtf?)
The name can be referred to only from the scopes in the same module unit or in the other translation units of the same named module.

Names declared at namespace scope have module linkage if their declarations are attached to a named module and are not exported, and don't have internal linkage.